docs/reference/aggregations/pipeline/bucket-script-aggregation.asciidoc, before:

[[search-aggregations-pipeline-bucket-script-aggregation]]
=== Bucket script aggregation
++++
<titleabbrev>Bucket script</titleabbrev>
++++

A parent pipeline aggregation which executes a script which can perform per bucket computations on specified metrics
in the parent multi-bucket aggregation. The specified metric must be numeric and the script must return a numeric value.

[[bucket-script-agg-syntax]]
==== Syntax

A `bucket_script` aggregation looks like this in isolation:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "bucket_script": {
    "buckets_path": {
      "my_var1": "the_sum",                     <1>
      "my_var2": "the_value_count"
    },
    "script": "params.my_var1 / params.my_var2"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
<1> Here, `my_var1` is the name of the variable for this buckets path to use in the script, `the_sum` is the path to
the metrics to use for that variable.

[[bucket-script-params]]
.`bucket_script` Parameters
[options="header"]
|===
|Parameter Name |Description |Required |Default Value
|`script` |The script to run for this aggregation. The script can be inline, file or indexed. (see <<modules-scripting>>
for more details) |Required |
|`buckets_path` |A map of script variables and their associated path to the buckets we wish to use for the variable
(see <<buckets-path-syntax>> for more details) |Required |
|`gap_policy` |The policy to apply when gaps are found in the data (see <<gap-policy>> for more
 details)|Optional |`skip`
|`format` |format to apply to the output value of this aggregation |Optional |`null`
|===

The following snippet calculates the ratio percentage of t-shirt sales compared to total sales each month:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /sales/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "sales_per_month": {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "date",
        "calendar_interval": "month"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "total_sales": {
          "sum": {
            "field": "price"
          }
        },
        "t-shirts": {
          "filter": {
            "term": {
              "type": "t-shirt"
            }
          },
          "aggs": {
            "sales": {
              "sum": {
                "field": "price"
              }
            }
          }
        },
        "t-shirt-percentage": {
          "bucket_script": {
            "buckets_path": {
              "tShirtSales": "t-shirts>sales",
              "totalSales": "total_sales"
            },
            "script": "params.tShirtSales / params.totalSales * 100"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:sales]

And the following may be the response:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
   "took": 11,
   "timed_out": false,
   "_shards": ...,
   "hits": ...,
   "aggregations": {
      "sales_per_month": {
         "buckets": [
            {
               "key_as_string": "2015/01/01 00:00:00",
               "key": 1420070400000,
               "doc_count": 3,
               "total_sales": {
                   "value": 550.0
               },
               "t-shirts": {
                   "doc_count": 1,
                   "sales": {
                       "value": 200.0
                   }
               },
               "t-shirt-percentage": {
                   "value": 36.36363636363637
               }
            },
            {
               "key_as_string": "2015/02/01 00:00:00",
               "key": 1422748800000,
               "doc_count": 2,
               "total_sales": {
                   "value": 60.0
               },
               "t-shirts": {
                   "doc_count": 1,
                   "sales": {
                       "value": 10.0
                   }
               },
               "t-shirt-percentage": {
                   "value": 16.666666666666664
               }
            },
            {
               "key_as_string": "2015/03/01 00:00:00",
               "key": 1425168000000,
               "doc_count": 2,
               "total_sales": {
                   "value": 375.0
               },
               "t-shirts": {
                   "doc_count": 1,
                   "sales": {
                       "value": 175.0
                   }
               },
               "t-shirt-percentage": {
                   "value": 46.666666666666664
               }
            }
         ]
      }
   }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 11/"took": $body.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_shards": \.\.\./"_shards": $body._shards/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"hits": \.\.\./"hits": $body.hits/]

Commit message:

Updated format parameter description to reference Java decimalFormat

docs/reference/aggregations/pipeline/bucket-script-aggregation.asciidoc, after:

[[search-aggregations-pipeline-bucket-script-aggregation]]
=== Bucket script aggregation
++++
<titleabbrev>Bucket script</titleabbrev>
++++

A parent pipeline aggregation which executes a script which can perform per bucket computations on specified metrics
in the parent multi-bucket aggregation. The specified metric must be numeric and the script must return a numeric value.

[[bucket-script-agg-syntax]]
==== Syntax

A `bucket_script` aggregation looks like this in isolation:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "bucket_script": {
    "buckets_path": {
      "my_var1": "the_sum",                     <1>
      "my_var2": "the_value_count"
    },
    "script": "params.my_var1 / params.my_var2"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE
<1> Here, `my_var1` is the name of the variable for this buckets path to use in the script, `the_sum` is the path to
the metrics to use for that variable.

[[bucket-script-params]]
.`bucket_script` Parameters
[options="header"]
|===
|Parameter Name |Description |Required |Default Value
|`script` |The script to run for this aggregation. The script can be inline, file or indexed. (see <<modules-scripting>>
for more details) |Required |
|`buckets_path` |A map of script variables and their associated path to the buckets we wish to use for the variable
(see <<buckets-path-syntax>> for more details) |Required |
|`gap_policy` |The policy to apply when gaps are found in the data (see <<gap-policy>> for more
 details)|Optional |`skip`
|`format` |{javadoc}/java.base/java/text/DecimalFormat.html[DecimalFormat pattern] for the
output value. If specified, the formatted value is returned in the aggregation's
`value_as_string` property |Optional |`null`
|===

The following snippet calculates the ratio percentage of t-shirt sales compared to total sales each month:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /sales/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "sales_per_month": {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "date",
        "calendar_interval": "month"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "total_sales": {
          "sum": {
            "field": "price"
          }
        },
        "t-shirts": {
          "filter": {
            "term": {
              "type": "t-shirt"
            }
          },
          "aggs": {
            "sales": {
              "sum": {
                "field": "price"
              }
            }
          }
        },
        "t-shirt-percentage": {
          "bucket_script": {
            "buckets_path": {
              "tShirtSales": "t-shirts>sales",
              "totalSales": "total_sales"
            },
            "script": "params.tShirtSales / params.totalSales * 100"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:sales]

And the following may be the response:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------
{
   "took": 11,
   "timed_out": false,
   "_shards": ...,
   "hits": ...,
   "aggregations": {
      "sales_per_month": {
         "buckets": [
            {
               "key_as_string": "2015/01/01 00:00:00",
               "key": 1420070400000,
               "doc_count": 3,
               "total_sales": {
                   "value": 550.0
               },
               "t-shirts": {
                   "doc_count": 1,
                   "sales": {
                       "value": 200.0
                   }
               },
               "t-shirt-percentage": {
                   "value": 36.36363636363637
               }
            },
            {
               "key_as_string": "2015/02/01 00:00:00",
               "key": 1422748800000,
               "doc_count": 2,
               "total_sales": {
                   "value": 60.0
               },
               "t-shirts": {
                   "doc_count": 1,
                   "sales": {
                       "value": 10.0
                   }
               },
               "t-shirt-percentage": {
                   "value": 16.666666666666664
               }
            },
            {
               "key_as_string": "2015/03/01 00:00:00",
               "key": 1425168000000,
               "doc_count": 2,
               "total_sales": {
                   "value": 375.0
               },
               "t-shirts": {
                   "doc_count": 1,
                   "sales": {
                       "value": 175.0
                   }
               },
               "t-shirt-percentage": {
                   "value": 46.666666666666664
               }
            }
         ]
      }
   }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 11/"took": $body.took/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"_shards": \.\.\./"_shards": $body._shards/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"hits": \.\.\./"hits": $body.hits/]
